Well, we have many fine examples
of those who have maintained their focus
during extreme life events.
Consider the experience
of Felix and Mayra Terrazas
in the following prerecorded interview.
Well, it’s a privilege
to be with Felix and Mayra Terrazas,
serving at Wallkill.
We understand
it’s been a very difficult year.
Could you share some of the details
of your medical condition?
Well, about a year and a half ago,
I started developing
an infrequent pain in my chest,
which led me to seeing several doctors.
Soon thereafter,
I was diagnosed with a malignant tumor
that was only going to be treatable
by its complete removal.
After the surgery, we were hoping
to hear good news moving forward.
Then, a few weeks later,
one of my doctors conveyed
to us some of the most difficult words
that one could imagine hearing
—a life expectancy of just a few months.
Wow!
That had to have been difficult to hear.
How were you able to get your mind
wrapped around that?
Well, as you can imagine,
after many intense and tearful prayers
asking Jehovah to give us peace of mind
and to give us a calm heart and wisdom
to make a good decision,
we decided on a treatment of hospice care
that would allow me
to make the most of the time that I had left
and to be able to give
my very best to Jehovah.
That’s remarkable, Felix.
And, Mayra, you’re such a supportive wife.
How have you been able to be so positive?
I have to say that it is my hope in Jehovah.
That is what has helped me.
At the moment,
we are ‘sharing in the sufferings’
mentioned at 2 Corinthians 1:7.
But the verse concludes
that ‘we will also share in the comfort,’
and we are also experiencing that right now.
I have no doubt that I’ll see Felix again
in the resurrection.
When I look to the future,
I can vividly picture
us walking through the Paradise earth,
enjoying Jehovah’s beautiful creation.
This is the life, “the real life,”
that Jehovah promises.
And it’s this hope
that gives me joy and peace.
Beautifully expressed.
Thank you.
And, Felix, how have you
been able to be so joyful?
My relationship with Jehovah
has never been stronger than it is right now.
And I believe that it’s this closeness
and this intimacy with him
that is providing me
the joy that I’m experiencing.
Now, Philippians 4:6, 7
assures me that “by prayer
and [by] supplication,”
it says that “the peace of God . . .
will guard your hearts.”
Prayer has been so indispensable
in bringing me peace during this process,
and it’s also amplified my appreciation
for the resurrection
like I’ve never experienced before.
Proverbs 12:25, I think,
perfectly illustrates our current situation.
There it says:
“Anxiety in a man’s heart weighs it down,
but a good word
[it says that it] cheers it up.”
Both Mayra and I have benefited
from what we feel is an enormous storehouse
of good words received in the way of concern,
of love and compassion, from the brotherhood.
And last, my current circumstances
have opened up such a wonderful opportunity
to share Kingdom truths with family members,
including the beautiful privilege
of being able to study the Bible
with my mother during the past few months.
Wow!
Amazing!
Tell us, how has this experience
affected your faith and trust in Jehovah?
Well, we have seen Jehovah’s hand
from the very beginning,
but one time sticks out in my mind.
It was the day we received Felix’s prognosis.
That evening,
the Bethel family Watchtower  Study
considered the article
“Keep Calm and Trust in Jehovah,”
and this was followed by a lecture
entitled “Remain
in Jehovah’s Everlasting Arms.”
Jehovah provided us
exactly what we needed to hear
that very day.
We felt it was an answer to our prayers,
as if to reassure us
that he has everything under control.
This has strengthened my faith
in that Jehovah will continue
to “more than superabundantly”
provide for us care and guidance
as we face new challenges
and will without a doubt
fulfill his promises for the future.
I think when you come to understand
that you only have a short time to live,
you know, that’s something that can
very easily knock you right off of your feet.
But we know that we have been grasped
by Jehovah’s caring hands right now,
and that is what’s stabilized us.
You know, throughout this ordeal,
we have seen Jehovah’s love
—his care and assistance—
in every decision, in every step,
that we’ve taken.
From the first visits to the doctors,
through surgery,
and into the most difficult part
of the prognosis,
we have lacked nothing.
I absolutely know that my faith
has only been strengthened
by the challenges of this trial.
So now as I prepare to close my eyes
and fall asleep for just a brief time,
it is a privilege for me
to demonstrate to Jehovah my trust
in all of his promises
and to maintain complete integrity
right down to the end.
What an outstanding expression of faith!
Thank you both so much for sharing
those deeply personal
and motivating expressions.
You are a living example of faith in action,
and we love you.
I can’t tell you how many times I’ve seen that,
and it’s so moving each time.
On June 8, 2021,
our dear brother Felix went to sleep in death,
just seven weeks after this interview.
And any, frankly, that were
around the Terrazas during this time
would see firsthand
the power of faith
and their focus on wanting to give
Jehovah their absolute best.
It was tremendous!
Mayra, dear Mayra, continues to show
that same faith and endurance even now.
And Felix’s mother
—she has continued to progress spiritually,
we understand.
Felix will be so happy to hear that.